CLEARING LAND FOR FARMS FERROL.
1 Rainforests are disappearing in tropical areas around the world. They are being cut
down, burned, and damaged through a process called "deforestation”. This is a
serious problem in developing countries within tropical regions. The impact of
deforestation, though, also has vast global implications. It is, therefore, very important
(33) solutions to these problems. Unfortunately, progress in this area has been
very slow.
2 According to World Bank statistics, many developing countries, such as Brazil,
Ecuador, and Indonesia, had lost almost half of (34) rainforests by 1991.
Worldwide, in 1800 there were 7.1 billion acres of tropical forests, while today there
are only 3.5 billion acres. Recent statistics suggest that an area of tropical forest larger
than North Korea (35) _deforested every year.
3 Most (36) ___, though, rainforests play an important role in the health of our
environment. Trees and other plants act as filters that clean pollutants out of the air
and produce clean air. With air pollution increasing as forests decline, the world is
facing a potential crisis with regard to air quality.
4 Poverty is one of the main forces behind deforestation in tropical countries,
(37) many rely on farming as a way of life. The most practical method is “slash
and burn” agriculture, in which (38) ___ small area of trees is cut down and then
burned to fertilize the soil. For a period of time, the soil can produce good crops, but
rain gradually washes away the nutrients, reducing fertility and causing crops to grow
at a slower rate. Eventually, the soil can no longer support crops, and farmers are
often forced to abandon the land.
5 Government policies also contribute to the destruction of rainforests. In countries like
Brazil, (39) ___ the rainforest" is owned by the state. However, the state does not
have enough resources to control access to the forest. Therefore, the government
allows people to claim areas of land within the forest. To do this, people must clear
the land that they want to claim. Small farmers often clear plots and then sell them.
They then move to a new area, clear it, and sell it again. While this is good for the
farmers, it is highly (40) to the forest.
6 Large companies contribute their own problems. Logging companies can do a great
deal of damage on their own, but they also cause secondary damage through their
effects on small farmers. Often, road construction companies hired by the
government claim land that they clear during their projects, thus pushing small
farmers (41) into the forest. In addition, the government might set low tax
rates for agricultural production. Corporations and wealthy investors buy up land, and
the small farmers are again forced to find plots in unclaimed areas of the forest.
7 The problem of deforestation is strongly affected by the poverty in developing
countries. Clearly, any long-term solution to deforestation must (42) ___ first on 
how poverty can be reduced. Any other solution can only be a temporary measure.
 
Task 1: Choose the best option A, B, C, or D for each gap.